Games
==================
Four fun games to play during some downtime! :ok_hand:

Overview
==================

This is an older python file I created, but quite frankly, a lot of fun :smiley:. It is a class that has 
four games as methods (listed below). Good when you are hanging around in command line/terminal and
just looking to spice up the day :fire:.

#####Number guessing game
:one: :arrow_forward: :one::zero::zero:

Guess a number between 1 and 100 that is randomly generated by the program. If the number you guesses is lower, it will print out "Lower!". If the number you guess is higher,
that's right, it will print "Higher!". Use these hints to find the number in the lowest time and guesses as you can!

#####Cows and bulls
:cow: :heavy_plus_sign: :cow:

The traditional cows and bulls program except with reversed the cow and bull indications. The game generates a random 4-digit number that you have to guess. For every digit that you guessed correctly in 
the correct place, it returns a 'cow'. For every digit you guessed correctly in the wrong place you will be returned a 'bull'. So every time you guess you will see how many 'cows' and 'bulls' you have to 
systematically hunt down the correct 4-digit number. Try to find the quickest method possible to ensure quick victory.

#####Anagram guesser
:tiger: :pig: :horse: :monkey_face: :snake: :whale2: :dolphin:

For this game, the class object has a list of animals that will be scrambled and you have to quickly decide what the animal corresponds to the anagram(you can modify the list object to be whatever you want 
as well as how many guesses are allowed. See below.)

#####Rock, paper, scissors
:moyai: :page_facing_up: :scissors:

Good clean quality best 2 out of 3 "Roshambo". You will be prompted to select one of the three scenarios (rock, paper, scissors.) and duke it out against the computer to see who takes the glory. :trophy:

##Importing games.py
----------------
If you run the games.py file alone, it will prompt you for each of the games. However, you can also import the class and modify it to what you would like. Maybe you want a new anagram list, or perhaps you want
a program of your own to utilize the "Rock, paper, scissors" game. Well you can, and it is quite easy at that. Just import the file and integrate as you wish! Examples below:

```python
from games import Games  # import the module.

g = Games()  # Create an instance of the class.

g.number_guess()  # Play the Number guessing game.

g.cows_and_bulls()  # Play the Cows and bulls game.

nba_teams = ["warriors", "spurs", "trailblazers", "magic", "suns", "mavericks", "lakers"]  # Create a list of any words you want.
g.anagram_list = nba_teams  # Change the default animal list to the list of your choice.
g.anagram_guesser(max_guesses=2)  # Play the Anagram Guesser game. You can change the amount of guesses you allow as well.

g.rock_paper_scissors  # Play Rock, paper, scissors.
g.rock_paper_scissors  # You can call a game as many times as you want and it will count the game number.

print g.return_elapsed_time  # Prints how long it took you to complete all the games.
```

###Dependencies

Games requires Python 2.7.3 or newer.

###Download games

You can obtain this program package by either going [here](https://github.com/EricDalrymple91/games) :octocat: and downloading the zip file, or 
cloning this repo to your machine using:

	git clone https://github.com/EricDalrymple91/games.git
	
##Execution
----------------
In command line/terminal, navigate to the parent directory and run *games.py*.

	Example:
		python games.py
	
The program will then give you instructions for each game and you can just get on in there and have a great time!

## License

The MIT License (MIT)
